Create Spiral Entry (#2003)
Codecademy/docs: content/general/concepts/software-development-life-cycle/terms/spiral/spiral.md

---

> Title: "Spiral"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Title: 'Spiral'
```

> Description: 'A model of software development which is a combination of Waterfall model and Iterative development.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'A model of software development that combines the Waterfall model with iterative development.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Mobile Development'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags:
  - 'Development'
  - 'Models'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-how-to-code'
  - 'paths/full-stack-engineer-career-path'
---

> The **Spiral** model is a Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) which is an excellent combination between Waterfall model and Iterative development. For each iteration, phases are repeatedly developed, with Risk Analysis and Prototype integrated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Spiral model** is a Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) that combines the [Waterfall model](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/general/software-development-life-cycle/waterfall) and iterative development approaches. Each phase within this model involve risk analysis and prototyping.
```

> The Spiral model was first introduced by Barry Boehm in 1986 as a result of applying iterative development in constructing softwares.
> 
> The workflow is divided in four phases:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Spiral model was first introduced by Barry Boehm in 1986 as a result of applying iterative development in constructing softwares. It is divided into four phases:
```

> - Planning
> - Risk Analysis
> - Engineering
> - Evaluation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Planning
2. Risk Analysis
3. Engineering
4. Evaluation
```

> Each iteration consists of all above phases but has different aims which are usually:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each iteration consists of all above phases but has different aims which are usually:

```

- Prototype
- Release candidate
- Launch

> ## Advantages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Advantages:

```

> - Products are soon introduced with prototype.
> - Errors and failures are identified and handled at ease.
> - Frequent feedback and refinement through cycles.
> - Flexible, adaptive to changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Products are prototyped for quick introduction.
- Errors and failures are identified and handled as they arise.
- Frequent feedback and refinement through cycles.
- Flexible and adaptive to changes.
```

> ## Disadvantages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Disadvantages:

```

> - Complex workflow and required expertise especially in Risk Analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Complex workflow and requires expertise especially in risk analysis.
```

---
Title: 'Spiral'
Description: 'A model of software development that combines the Waterfall model with iterative development.'
Subjects:
  - 'Mobile Development'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags:
  - 'Development'
  - 'Models'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-how-to-code'
  - 'paths/full-stack-engineer-career-path'
---

The **Spiral model** is a Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) that combines the [Waterfall model](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/general/software-development-life-cycle/waterfall) and iterative development approaches. Each phase within this model involve risk analysis and prototyping.

> The Spiral model was first introduced by Barry Boehm in 1986 as a result of applying iterative development in constructing softwares. It is divided into four phases:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Spiral model was first introduced by Barry Boehm in 1986 as a result of applying iterative development in constructing softwares. It is divided into four phases:

```

---
Title: 'Spiral'
Description: 'A model of software development that combines the Waterfall model with iterative development.'
Subjects:
  - 'Mobile Development'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags:
  - 'Development'
  - 'Models'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-how-to-code'
  - 'paths/full-stack-engineer-career-path'
---

> The **Spiral model** is a Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) that combines the [Waterfall model](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/general/software-development-life-cycle/waterfall) and iterative development approaches. Each phase within this model involve risk analysis and prototyping.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **Spiral model** is a Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) that combines the [Waterfall model](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/general/software-development-life-cycle/waterfall) and iterative development approaches. Each phase within this model involves risk analysis and prototyping.
```

> The Spiral model was first introduced by Barry Boehm in 1986 as a result of applying iterative development in constructing softwares. It is divided into four phases:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Spiral model was first introduced by Barry Boehm in 1986 as a result of applying iterative development in constructing software. It is divided into four phases:
```
